- [Instructor] All right, enough explanations.
Let's get into some code
by implementing RESTful web services with Quarkus.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to create another new application.
Again, multiple ways to do that,
but I'm going to do it with my IDE.
So create a new module using Quarkus.
I'm going to, once again, put in my group,
com.frankmoley.lil.lq,
and this one is going to be called the room-service.
Now, we've got a few selections here,
so we're going to do RESTEasy with JAX-RS
and RESTEasy Jackson,
and then in Data, we're going to do our Cassandra database.
If you don't want to use Cassandra,
if you prefer to use Postgres, feel free to do that.
Just know that I'm going to be using Cassandra,
so it will be a little bit different.
Go ahead and select Next and allow that to build.
Now, the first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to go back to my cmd-app-nosql,
and I'm going to copy a couple of values here.
So I'm going to copy the Room object over.
Going to get rid of the example resource in our new service,
and I'm going to get rid of the RESTEasy Jackson
'cause I don't need that.
Now, the other thing I want to do
is I want to go into my application.properties files,
and I want to grab these first two properties
from the NoSQL app, and I want to paste them
into my new application.
That's enough copy paste for now.
So now in our Room service, in our default package here,
we're going to create a new class,
and this is going to be called RoomService.
We're going to annotate it with ApplicationScoped.
In this class, we will inject
our CqlSession.
I'm going to go ahead and put
as a private final static String, getAllCql,
and that will be just equal to select room_number,
bed_info, name from lil.rooms.
We've seen that before.
Just going to do it as a static variable
to make this a little bit more
like you would do it professionally.
I'm going to create a method
that returns a list of rooms called getAllRooms.
And, once again, I will do,
basically, the same code that I've done before.
If you don't feel like typing all of this out,
you definitely can copy and paste most of this
from the NoSQL example.
And now, we will simply return our rooms object.
So what we've done here is we've just encapsulated
into a service all of our data access.
Now, let's create another class.
And this one, we will call RoomResource.
We're going to annotate this with an @Path annotation,
and it will respond at /rooms.
We're going to inject an instance of our RoomService.
And now, we're going to do an @GET method,
and this is going to produce
MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON.
And we will simply return the objects.
So we're going to return the entire list,
and we will return that from the roomService.getAllRooms.
And that's all there is to do,
so let's go ahead and run our application.
Once again, I'm going to run it with my IDE.
You can do it through the command line using Maven.
So our application has started up,
so now I'm going to jump over into a terminal window,
and I'm going to use a tool called HTTPie to query 8080.
If you don't have that installed,
you can definitely use curl.
And I'm going to go again /rooms.
And you'll see immediately that I get JSON output,
and that JSON output was what we saw earlier
from the database.
And that's really all there is
to creating a simple RESTful web service using Quarkus.